General Information
1. Reporting year
2. Country
3. Country specific comments
4. Name of the institution acting as NRCP
5. Name of the person reporting on behalf of the NRCP
6. Phone number
7. E-mail
8. Options for data collection in the Member State
Questions on ethnic self-identification included in the Population Census
Questions on ethnic self-identification included in the standardized European Social Surveys (EU SILC, Labour Force Survey etc.)
Proxies of ethnic identity used in the Population Census or in the standardized European Social Surveys (e.g. mother tongue)
Questions on ethnic identity asked in custom sociological surveys
Qualitative research (focus groups, structured interviews with members of ethnic groups)
Territorial mapping (experts’ estimates of the distribution of the population at municipal level or other territorial units)
Data disaggregated by ethnicity are not collected
Other
8.1. If other options, please specify …
Measures (Measure)
1. Title of the measure
2. Implemented by
My organisation
Other organisation
2.1. Organisation type
Local public authority
Local civil society
Local private sector entity
Regional public authority
Regional civil society
Regional private sector entity
National public authority
National civil society
National private sector entity
Transnational public organisation
Transnational civil society
Transnational private sector entity
Partnership
2.1.1. If partnership, please select the type
3. Is the measure part of the implementation plan of…
NRIS or integrated sets of policy measures on Roma
Other – another national level plan
Other – a regional or local level plan
3.1. If other, enter the source
4. Detailed description of the measure
5. Is it a mainstream or Roma targeted measure?
Mainstream
Targeted
5.1. If mainstream, does the measure have explicit safeguards to secure equal access of various vulnerable people (including vulnerable Roma) to mainstreamed measures and prevent indirect discrimination?
Yes
No
5.1.1 If yes, what are those safeguards? Please describe in more details? What is the budget allocated for these safeguards?
6. What is the duration of the measure?
7. Please describe the results of this measure
8. Please comment on the lessons learned from this measure
9. Please select up to 3 areas and sub-areas most related to this measure (in accordance with the 2013 Council Recommendation)
Thematic areas
Nothing has been selected.
10. Is funding envisaged for the measure?
I do not know
10.1. What was the total funding ALLOCATED for the year of reporting?
National public funding
ESIFs European Structural and Investment Funds (e.g. ESF, ERDF, EARDF)
Other (international or private)
10.2. What was the total funding SPENT during the year preceding the YEAR OF REPORTING?
11. Is it possible to estimate the total number of the end beneficiaries (people benefiting from the measure)
I cannot judge
11.1. Source of the estimate
11.2. What is the estimated number of total beneficiaries (people benefiting from the measure) per year?
12. Country specific comments
13. Is it possible to estimate the number of Roma that would benefit from this measure?
14. Country specific comments on Roma beneficiaries
15. Can you provide any other information on output / result indicators? Please chose the most relevant (up to 3) from the list and estimate their value or add any new indicator.
Thematic areas (Thematic area)
Thematic area
1. Which was the most important success? What were the factors contributing to this achievement?
2. Which was the most important challenge? What were the factors contributing to it?
3. What is the basis of your assessment?
4. How would you assess the situation in this thematic area?
Improved
Remained the same
Deteriorated
5. Is funding envisaged?
5.1. Total funding ALLOCATED for this thematic area for the year of reporting
Total amount
5.2. Total funding SPENT in this thematic area for the year of reporting
Funding
1. Has funding been allocated (spent) for the implementation and monitoring of your national and local Roma integration strategy or integrated set of policy measures and action plans?
1.1. Country-specific comments on the funding
2. How much funding has been ALLOCATED for the year of reporting for the implementation and monitoring of your national and local Roma integration strategies or integrated set of policy measures and action plans from the respective sources (general estimate…)
2.4. Country-specific comments on the funding ALLOCATED
3. How much funding has been SPENT during the year PRECEDING the YEAR OF REPORTING for the implementation and monitoring of your national and local Roma integration strategies or integrated sets of policy measures and action plans from the respective sources (general estimate for all measures)?
3.4. Country-specific comments on the funding SPENT
4. Are the European Structural and Investment Funds or national funding used to build the capacity of
the national authorities
the local authorities
civil society
to strengthen
implementation
monitoring and evaluation of the NRIS (National Roma Integration Strategy) or set of policy measures?
4.1. Please elaborate how and specify the amounts
5. Is public funding allocated following specific targeting of Roma as a social group?
5.1. Please elaborate how and specify the amounts
6. Is public funding allocated following specific targeting of geographical areas most affected by poverty and social exclusion?
6.1. Please elaborate how and specify the amounts
7. Is public funding allocated taking into consideration the gender dimension?
8. Are Roma communities involved in the decision-making regarding financial resources allocation for the implementation of the NRIS (or the respective strategic document)?
8.1. If yes, please elaborate how
Governance & cooperation
1. Annual Budget for NRCP
1.1. ALLOCATED for the year of reporting
1.2. SPENT in the year preceding the year of reporting
1.3. Specific comments on budget for NRCP
2. Human Resources of the NRCP in full time equivalent
2.1. ACTUAL in the year if reporting
2.2. ESTIMATE of NEEDED in the year of reporting
2.3. Specific comments on human resources of NRCP
3. What is the role played by the NRCP in cross sectorial coordination of the implementation and monitoring of NRIS (or Integrated set of policy measures…)?
In charge
Contributing to it
Neither
3.1. Specific comments on the role of the NRCP in cross sectorial coordination
4. Please describe the process of cross sectorial coordination of the implementation and monitoring of NRIS (or Integrated set of policy measures…).
5. What is the involvement of NRCP in decision making processes regarding DEVELOPMENT of relevant policies?
Participating in
Being consulted
Neither
5.1. Specific comments on the involvement of NRCP in decision-making processes regarding development of relevant policies
6. What is the involvement of the NRCP in decision making processes regarding FUNDING of relevant policies?
6.1. Specific comments on the involvement of NRCP in decision-making processes regarding funding of relevant policies.
7. What is the involvement of the NRCP in decision making processes regarding IMPLEMENTATION of relevant policies?
7.1. Specific comments on the involvement of NRCP in decision-making processes regarding implementation of relevant policies.
8. Is the NRCP facilitating participation and involvement of (Roma) civil society in the implementation of NRIS (or Integrated set of policy measures…)?
8.1. How does it facilitate the participation and involvement of Roma civil society? Please describe the process.
8.2. Who are the stakeholders? Please list them.
9. Please list the stakeholders involved in the monitoring and evaluation of the NRIS (national, regional, public, civil, private)
10. Is there a regular dialogue/cooperation established between the Equality body and the NRCP?
10.1. If yes, please describe (structure, frequency)
11. Do you have a baseline against which you assess progress for the implementation of your NRIS or set of policy measures?
11.1. If yes, please describe
12. Do you have measurable targets?
12.1. If yes, please describe
Equal treatment
1. Does your mandate include discrimination on the basis of race and ethnic origin?
2. Does your body have concerns as regards its institutional capacity/resources and/or independence?
2.1. If yes, please describe
3. Can you report any Roma-specific measures or mainstream measures benefiting also the Roma/Travellers you have taken in (year X) for the promotion of the practical enforcement of Directive 2000/43/EC, either horizontal measures or in particular in the areas of education, employment, housing and health?
Projects
Complaints received
Court cases pursued
Studies
Opinions
Recommendations to the Government
Consultation on legislative proposals
4. Has the situation (of the protection of Roma from discrimination) improved/remained the same/deteriorated in respect of the practical enforcement of Directive 2000/43/EC?
Improved
Remained the same
Deteriorated
5. What were the main achievements? What made these achievements possible?
6. What were the main challenges? What are the factors to be taken into account?
7. Is there a regular dialogue/cooperation established between
the Equality body and the NRCP
7.1. Please describe the cooperation (e.g. formal/informal)
or the Equality body and any other relevant institution (e.g. having a monitoring or regulatory role in the field of education, employment, housing, health)?
7.2. Please specify with which institution and describe the cooperation (e.g. formal/informal)
Concluding remarks (Conclusion)
1. Please enter comments that did not fit into the other parts of the reporting tool
2. Indicate the most promising measures (max 3 per area) targeted and mainstream
3. Please summarise the main achievements, and challenges for the year of reporting
4. What were the main factors contributing to this and the lessons learnt?
5. Please report on any pertinent legislative measure that was adopted in the year of reporting
5.1. Date of entry into force
5.2. Please describe the legislative measure
5.3. Please describe the expected impact of this legislative measure on Roma
Attachments & links
Files
Add a new file
Browse
No files selected
Upload
Files must be less than
Allowed file types
Links
Add another item
Select a value
Add
Save
Policy measure
has a National Roma Integration Strategy
has an Integrated set of policy measures within the broader social inclusion policies for improving the situation of Roma
Thematic areas
Education
a) eliminate any school segregation
b) put an end to any inappropriate placement of Roma pupils in special needs schools
c) reduce early school leaving
d) increase the access to, and quality of, early childhood education and care
e) consider the needs of individual pupils in close cooperation with their families
f) use inclusive and tailor-made teaching and learning methods
g) fight illiteracy
h) promote the availability and use of extracurricular activities
i) encourage greater parental involvement
j) improve teacher training
k) encourage Roma participation in and completion of secondary and tertiary education
l) widen access to second-chance education and adult learning
m) provide support for the transition between educational levels
n) provide support for the acquisition of skills that are adapted to the needs of the labour market
Employment
a) support first work experience
b) support vocational training
c) support on-the-job training
d) support lifelong learning and skills development
e) support self-employment and entrepreneurship
f) provide equal access to mainstream public employment services
g) support individual job-seekers, focusing on personalised guidance and individual action planning
h) promote employment opportunities within the civil service
i) eliminate barriers, including discrimination, to (re)entering the labour market
Healthcare
a) remove any barriers to access the healthcare system accessible for the general population
b) improve access to medical check-ups, prenatal and postnatal care and family planning, as well as sexual and reproductive healthcare, generally provided by national healthcare services
c) improve access to free vaccination programmes targeting children
d) improve access to vaccination programmes targeting the groups most at risk and/or those living in marginalised and/or remote areas
e) promote awareness of health and healthcare issues
Housing
a) eliminate any spatial segregation and promoting desegregation
b) promote non-discriminatory access to social housing
c) provide halting sites for non-sedentary Roma, in proportion to local needs
d) ensure access to public utilities (such as water, electricity and gas) and infrastructure for housing in compliance with national legal requirements
e) ensure that applications from local authorities for urban regeneration projects include integrated housing interventions in favour of marginalised communities
f) promote community-led local development and/or integrated territorial investments supported by the ESIF
Anti-discrimination
By legal means
a) ensure the effective practical enforcement of Directive 2000/43/EC
b) Implement desegregation measures both regionally and locally
c) Combat anti-Roma rhetoric and hate speech
d) ensure that eviction are in full compliance with Union law as well with other international human rights obligations
By awareness raising
e) Combat anti-Gypsyism by raising awareness about the benefits of Roma integration
f) Combat anti-Gypsyism by sensitising public opinion to the inclusion problems Roma face
Multiple discrimination
a) fight violence, including domestic violence, against women and girls
b) fight trafficking in human beings
c) fight underage and forced marriages
d) fight begging involving children, in particular through the enforcement of legislation
e) promote the involvement in this exercise of all relevant actors including public authorities, civil society and Roma communities
f) promote the cooperation between Member States in situations with a cross-border dimension
Poverty reduction through social investment
a) support Roma at all stages of their lives, including by investing in good-quality inclusive early childhood education and care, targeted youth guarantee schemes, life-long learning and active ageing measures
b) pursue policies of activation and enablement
c) support (re)entry to the labour market through targeted or mainstream employment support schemes
d) promote inclusive labour market by addressing discrimination in the workplace
e) make social benefits and social services granted to the disadvantaged, more adequate and sustainable
Empowerment
a) support the active citizenship of Roma by promoting their social, economic, political and cultural participation in society
b) promote the training and employment of qualified mediators dedicated to Roma
c) further raise awareness among Roma of their rights (notably in relation to discrimination and the possibilities of seeking redress) and of their civic duties
Local action
a) encourage regional and local authorities to develop local action plans or strategies
b) involve regional and local authorities and local civil society in developing, implementing and monitoring their national strategies or integrated sets of policy measures
c) support local public authorities so as to facilitate the implementation of sets of policy measures at local level.
d) strive at the local level for an integrated approach concerning families with a Roma background facing multiple problems and strengthen the capacity of local authorities in this respect
Monitoring and Evaluation
a) set baselines or measurable targets
b) collect relevant qualitative or quantitative data on the social and economic effects of integration strategies or measures
c) use relevant core indicators or methods of empirical social research
d) use data collection for monitoring and evaluating progress on a regular basis, particularly at the local level
Transnational Cooperation
a) encourage development of transnational cooperation at national, regional or local level through policy initiatives and projects implementation
b) coordinate on issues related to the cross-border mobility of Roma within the Union
c) support mutual learning and the multiplication of good practices
Culture
Other